Esub's The Shepherd Boy and the Wolf
retold by Jenny Dooley and Antony Kerr
an express publishing storytime reader at Primary Stage 1
This is Homer, a shepherd boy. He loves to play and laugh with joy.
He takes the sheep to eat all day, up in the hills, as his parents say.
But as he goes to work one day, he feels so bored and wants to play.
What can I do? Nobody's here. How can I play? No one is near.
He looks around and tries to see the other shepherds. Where can they be?
I know what I can do. I'll play a game and scare them too.
So he stands up and starts to cry to all the farmers who are nearby.
Friends, help me. Please, come here. I'm all alone and a wolf is near.
Down in the fields, the farmers stop and run to help on the hilltop.
But when they go up on the hill, no wolf is there and all is still.
My son, what's wrong? What happened here? The sheep are fine. No wolf is near.
A wolf? There's no wolf near. It was a joke to bring you here.
Come on, let's go. Our job is done. Sorry, my friends, about our son.
So off they go, down the path and Homer starts to laugh and laugh.
Sometimes you're happy, sometimes you're sad. But if you're bored, do not be bad.
It's not very nice to have your phone when it makes things bad for everyone.
When other people worry about you, do not play games that are not true.
Now Homer is bored. He wants to play and not to watch the sheep all day.
Help me, help me. A wolf is there. He's got big teeth. He's got grey hair.
The farmers stop and run up the hill, but Homer laughs. He can't keep still.
There is no wolf and I scared you. It's funny, but it's not true.
Homer, my boy, you are so bad. Father and I feel very mad.
Homer, that's right. Why do you lie? We won't come back if we hear you cry.
People hear you scream and cry. They run to help, so do not lie.
Be very careful what you say. You may need help another day.
You may need help another day.
Homer feels sad. He doesn't like sheep. He lies on the ground and goes to sleep.
Now here's a wolf. He's big. He's strong. He likes to eat sheep. His teeth are long.
Homer wakes up. What does he see? His sheep aren't there. Where can they be?
Help me, help me. The sheep are gone. There's a big wolf here. He's bad and strong.
Down in the fields, the farmer's here. Help me, help me. A wolf is near.
It's Homer again. Don't listen or run. He's such a bad boy. He's just having fun.
A wolf. A wolf. The sheep are gone. His hair is grey. His teeth are long.
A wolf. A wolf. It's not a lie. It's real this time. Is that why you cry?
We're very angry with you and your game. Lying is bad. It's not a game.
I'm sorry, Mum. I'm sorry, Dad. Lies aren't funny. They're very bad.
Sometimes you don't want to go to school. You say you're ill when it isn't true.
Your mother may just feel very sad if you're not ill but say you feel bad.
It isn't fun to play a game with people who don't feel the same.
She'll be angry and not trust you the same because you lied. Trust is not a game.
Then one day, if you are really sick, who believe you will think it's a trick?
It isn't fun to play a game with people who don't feel the same.
This is Homer, a shepherd boy. He loves to play and laugh with joy.
He takes the sheep to eat all day up in the hills as his parents say.
But as he goes to work one day, he feels so bored and wants to play.
What can I do? Nobody's here. How can I play? No one is near.
He looks around and tries to see the other shepherds. Where can they be?
Uh-huh. I know what I can do. I'll play a game and scare them too.
So he stands up and starts to cry to all the farmers who are nearby.
Friends, help me. Oh please, come here. I'm all alone and a wolf is near.
Down in the fields, the farmers stop and run to help on the hilltop.
But when they go up on the hill, no wolf is there and all is still.
My son, what's wrong? What happened here? The sheep are fine. No wolf is near.
A wolf? There's no wolf near. It was a joke to bring you here.
Come on, let's go. Our job is done. Sorry my friends about our son.
So off they go, down the path and Homer starts to laugh and laugh.
Now Homer is bored. He wants to play and not to watch the sheep all day.
Help me, help me. A wolf is there. He's got big teeth. He's got grey hair.
The farmers stop and run up the hill. But Homer laughs. He can't keep still.
There is no wolf and I scared you. It's funny, but it's not true.
Homer, my boy, you are so bad. Father and I feel very mad.
Homer, that's right. Why do you lie? We won't come back if we hear you cry.
Homer feels sad. He doesn't like sheep. He lies on the ground and goes to sleep.
Now here's a wolf. He's big. He's strong. He likes to eat sheep. His teeth are long.
Homer wakes up. What does he see? His sheep aren't there. Where can they be?
Help me, help me. The sheep are gone. There's a big wolf here. He's bad and strong.
Down in the fields, the farmers here. Help me, help me. A wolf is near.
It's Homer again. Don't listen or run. He's such a bad boy. He's just having fun.
A wolf. A wolf. The sheep are gone. His hair is grey. His teeth are long.
A wolf. A wolf. It's not a lie. It's real this time. Is that why you cry?
We're very angry with you and your game. Lying is bad. It's not a game.
I'm sorry, Mum. I'm sorry, Dad. Lies aren't funny. They're very bad.
Sometimes you have it. Sometimes you're sad. But if you're bored, do not be bad.
It's not very nice to have you found. When it makes things bad for everyone.
When other people worry about you. Do not play games that are not true.
Thanks for watching.
People hear you screaming cry. They run to help so do not lie.
Be very careful what you say. You may need help another day.
Sometimes you don't want to go to school. You say you're ill. When it isn't true.
Your mother may just feel very sad. If you're not ill, but say you feel bad.
It isn't fun to play a game with people who don't feel the same.
She'll be angry and not trust you the same. Because you lied. Trust is not a game.
Then one day if you are really sick. Who believe you they'll think it's a trick.
It isn't fun to play a game with people who don't feel the same.